So now that you know to update the best answer id
column in the questions table when the related
answer removed from database by utilizing eloquent event.
Now let's see another way of doing so in the database layer.
Actually here we need to check out to lesson 19 not to
master branch because the latest changes was isolated
in that branch
here the destroy method is empty.
Let me see the answer
model. And here to get status accessor is gone.
so we need to check out to lesson-19-a
In this case so that we don't have to recreate the get status accessor. OK let's go back to our terminal
and here let's check out to lesson-19-a
and then we can remove the lesson-19-b
branch.
And now we can recreate the lesson-19-b
OK
we are in lesson-19-b branch. And we can
continue to go over the second way.
All right
firstly let's create new migration. Here we can say php artisan make migration add foreign best answer id
to questions questions table
table equals questions.
OK next let's open our migration file.
And here in up method we can define foreign key
for best answer id  by saying table
foreign best answer
id
references id
on answers on answers table and here are the important part
So on delete
SET NULL
so whenever the answer which is mark as best answer
in answers table removed we will set the foreign
key which is best answer id to null
And here in down method we simply drop
the foreign key by saying table
drop foreign
and pass in array that contains best answer id
and that's all we need.
And here
we don't need these lines.
And then here I'll revert back to answer
question decrement and remove this line
and let's run our migration
here our latest migration file has been migrated.
Now let's go to our browser
go to all questions
choose any question
and here I have two answers
here I know that the idea is 23 let's reopen our tinker
Here let's find the answer
and assign to a variable
and then get its question and assign to another variable.
Now let's set the best answer id
to 23
and then save the changes to our database.
All right let's go back to our browser reload the page
here
The answer marked as best answer. Now
hit the delete button hit
OK
The answer has been deleted.
Now let's go back to our tinker and see the question question
spp question
find the id is 4
as you can see now the best answer id of the question is null
And we do that without need to write something in
our application code because we do that in database
layer.
All right so now that the you know two different ways to
change the best answer id column in the Questions table
to be null whenever the related answer which marked as
best answer is removed. So from two options that I have
explained which one do you prefer? Please decide which one do you prefer and then merge that with your
master branch here
I prefer the second option because if I deleted
the best answer in answers table directly
let's say I do that using phpmyadmin than
it will affect the question table
as we just did in our application but it will
not happen if we chose the first option.
All right let's save our changes to our git repo
git add all git commit
and I'll say update best answer id on questions table when
answer
removed
in database layer
Now I can switch to master branch
git checkout master
and then merge to lesson-19-b git merge lesson-19-b
OK here I'll push the master branch to remote repo git push origin
master
and I also push button lesson-19-a and
lesson-19-b to remote repo so that you can see
my work.
git push origin lesson 19
and I should also push the lesson-19
OK that's it
I'll see you in the next lesson.